update documentation (#9)
SovereignCloudStack/scs-did-creator: README.md

Bases on [DID specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#dfn-did-documents): "...DID documents contain information associated with a DID. They typically express verification methods, such as cryptographic public keys, and services relevant to interactions with the DID subject..."

There a several types of verification methods, such as [JsonWebKey2020 (JWK)](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/lds-jws2020/#json-web-key-2020 or [EcdsaSecp256k1VerificationKey2019](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/lds-ecdsa-secp256k1-2019/). A complete list of supported types can be found in [DID Spec Registry](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-spec-registries/).

> **Note**: SCS scs-did-creator supports JWK, only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: scs-did-creator supports JWK, only.
```

> Public-Private JWK key pairs JWK could by different cryptographic algorithms.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence. What is it supposed to mean?

Author: There is a verb missing. :-)

```suggestion
Public-Private JWK key pairs could be generates by different cryptographic algorithms.
```

> Public-Private JWK key pairs could be generates by different cryptographic algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public-Private JWK key pairs can be generated by different cryptographic algorithms.
```

> **Note**: SCS scs-did-creator supports [RSA keys](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSA_(cryptosystem)) and [EC keys](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic-curve_cryptography), only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: scs-did-creator supports [RSA keys](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSA_(cryptosystem)) and [EC keys](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic-curve_cryptography), only.
```

> You need at lest one private-public key pair to generate DID document. If ypu do not have one, create a public-private key pair with [OpenSSL](https://developers.yubico.com/PIV/Guides/Generating_keys_using_OpenSSL.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need at least one private-public key pair to generate a DID document. If you do not have one, create a public-private key pair with [OpenSSL](https://developers.yubico.com/PIV/Guides/Generating_keys_using_OpenSSL.html).
```

### Configure scs-did-creator

> Mandatory content for DID document is are taken from `config.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mandatory content for the DID document is taken from `config.yaml`.
```

    - "/cert1.pem"
    - "https://www.example.com/cert2.pem" 
```

> The following attribute MUST be set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following attributes MUST be set:
```

- `issuer`:  Issuer of DID document, which is the DID itself.

> - `verification-methods` List of public keys used as verification methods in DID document to be generated. scs-did-creator sets JWK as verification method. JWK is formatted according to [RFC 7517](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-4)) as verification method only. s At least one verification method MUST be set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `verification-methods`: List of public keys used as verification methods in DID document to be generated. scs-did-creator sets JWK as verification method. JWK is formatted according to [RFC 7517](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-4) as verification method only. At least one verification method MUST be set:
```

>   - `key`: Absolute file path to private key file. Using this setting adds JWK as verification method expressed by parameters `n` and `e`, only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `keys` entry: Absolute file path to private key file. Using this setting adds JWK as verification method expressed by parameters `n` and `e`, only
```

I think we should reference the config format syntax more verbatim here. Otherwise users might be confused between `keys`/`x509s` in the config template/examples and the `key`/`x509` (without `s`) documented here.
Same goes for the next entry below.

>   - `x509`: Either path or url to X.509 certificate chain. Generator uses public key being referred by first certificate as verification method. Specifying certificate as file path adds [`x5c`](), using an URL, adds [`x5u`](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-4.6) parameter to JWK format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `x509s` entry: Either file path or URL to X.509 certificate chain. The generator uses the public key represented by the first certificate in the chain as verification method. Specifying a certificate via file path adds the [`x5c`](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-4.7), using an URL adds the [`x5u`](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-4.6) parameter to the JWK format.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: To produce a DID document compatible with the Compliance API of the Gaia-X Digital Clearing House (GXDCH), specify a single `x509s` entry using a publicly accessible URL pointing to a valid certificate chain and omit any `keys` entries.

```

I think this is the most crucial non-obvious fact that is still missing from the documentation, which led to #4.

> **Note**: Each entry in `verification-method` will adds an additional verification method to DID document. Eg. the following configuration file, will result in a DID document with three verification methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Each entry in `verification-method` will add an additional verification method to the DID document. E.g., the following configuration file will result in a DID document with two verification methods.
```

      "type": "JsonWebKey2020",
      "controller": "did:web:example.com",
      "publicKeyJwk": {
        "kty": "RSA",
        "kid": "q7Br89MDU0pbnBELpEwMHuy8KmOZXoZLIVb3gVGN9So",
        "n": "l2p0GOipSrw8CPOxPfRUohkB_ritC4wwNsH1A8eilZ1ntEfjCFsuxGutoEFXq8ge5dyvmmeZu5Ezt2crTJbS55_OFAeepsPIyO_O3JHJNtp5aNOv-0bJUVc5_6xLC5ucLUYtj5tzRimiaP5AM-uZCqIpG5VV8ELT1-HTaW9Bj-Ruajwm0MplGK3lZlpt1FAM7Rp4OAHyMiHDimw8X4qwgFIaj28YZqyIkB04Yc-jhl7_lHB0WRfVN---Lj9J-vCgKIfvCYlKWIwGgIr5FuElDnGv3uNFnTlcruWtBG0JzV8PLWJ0AGeWZWYsSca41Df9BvqVY24qi9JUH89FNqMnc_mNlX-G-49ap0c4L-kEQ6jCO3_tsqYsIMRWiuPeZ49d8o7kYZasXPuAvqLXCJK4BBGnXcBiqvfyrazWe0Yz_jC9MxdqXyakEf2RWmaPtna9JVH-Lx8eSHcvrX5FOSz2fPEwC_FCfM9gpO8TnUTq93gcXWuJtswChCryAtlmF3lC4DFdgzJxnqesrS1x0J2rqOl2anpQRCUa5m3om3y0gqQ3_XYqK1ezDbP3pRkeuwSS2e4HEPEZM6-euAK0G6TKA-EIO1Igb1F_EqeV_cOw5Jjxljj9IGzKrCZ4qXZX30sG0aMeCgGvreU2jGIDJzNrY7lM1SgXOFKffluI7nrvOzk",
        "e": "AQAB",
        "alg": "RS256",
        "x5u": "https://www.example.com/cert2.pem" 
      }
    }
  ],
  "assertionMethod": [
    "did:web:gaia-x.cloudandheat.com#JWK2020-RSA-0",
    "did:web:gaia-x.cloudandheat.com#JWK2020-X509-1"
  ]
}
```

### Run scs-did-creator

> Run scs-did-creator with configuration file, implicitly. config.yaml MUST be placed in `/etc/scs-did-gen/config.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the scs-did-creator without specifying a configuration file. This implies the default path at `/etc/scs-did-gen/config.yaml`, which must exist:
```

```shell
python3 -m creator.cli
```

> Run scs-did-creator with configuration file, explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the scs-did-creator with a specified configuration file path:
```

    - "https://www.example.com/cert2.pem" 
```

The following attributes MUST be set:

- `issuer`: Issuer of DID document, which is the DID itself.
- `verification-methods`: List of public keys used as verification methods in DID document to be generated. scs-did-creator sets JWK as verification method. JWK is formatted according to [RFC 7517](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-4) as verification method only. At least one verification method MUST be set:

  - `keys` entry: Absolute file path to private key file. Using this setting adds JWK as verification method expressed by parameters `n` and `e`, only

>   - `x509s` entry: Either file path or URL to X.509 certificate chain. The generator uses the public key represented by the first certificate in the chain as verification method. Specifying a certificate via file path adds the [`x5c`](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-4.7), using an URL adds the [`x5u`](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-4.6) parameter to the JWK format.**Note**: To produce a DID document compatible with the Compliance API of the Gaia-X Digital Clearing House (GXDCH), specify a single `x509s` entry using a publicly accessible URL pointing to a valid certificate chain and omit any `keys` entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `x509s` entry: Either file path or URL to X.509 certificate chain. The generator uses the public key represented by the first certificate in the chain as verification method. Specifying a certificate via file path adds the [`x5c`](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-4.7), using an URL adds the [`x5u`](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-4.6) parameter to the JWK format.

**Note**: To produce a DID document compatible with the Compliance API of the Gaia-X Digital Clearing House (GXDCH), specify a single `x509s` entry using a publicly accessible URL pointing to a valid certificate chain and omit any `keys` entries.
```

Better to pull this hint out of the nested bullet point list to not bloat it.

      "id": "did:did:web:example.com#JWK2020-X509-1",
      "type": "JsonWebKey2020",
      "controller": "did:web:example.com",
      "publicKeyJwk": {
        "kty": "RSA",
        "kid": "q7Br89MDU0pbnBELpEwMHuy8KmOZXoZLIVb3gVGN9So",
        "n": "l2p0GOipSrw8CPOxPfRUohkB_ritC4wwNsH1A8eilZ1ntEfjCFsuxGutoEFXq8ge5dyvmmeZu5Ezt2crTJbS55_OFAeepsPIyO_O3JHJNtp5aNOv-0bJUVc5_6xLC5ucLUYtj5tzRimiaP5AM-uZCqIpG5VV8ELT1-HTaW9Bj-Ruajwm0MplGK3lZlpt1FAM7Rp4OAHyMiHDimw8X4qwgFIaj28YZqyIkB04Yc-jhl7_lHB0WRfVN---Lj9J-vCgKIfvCYlKWIwGgIr5FuElDnGv3uNFnTlcruWtBG0JzV8PLWJ0AGeWZWYsSca41Df9BvqVY24qi9JUH89FNqMnc_mNlX-G-49ap0c4L-kEQ6jCO3_tsqYsIMRWiuPeZ49d8o7kYZasXPuAvqLXCJK4BBGnXcBiqvfyrazWe0Yz_jC9MxdqXyakEf2RWmaPtna9JVH-Lx8eSHcvrX5FOSz2fPEwC_FCfM9gpO8TnUTq93gcXWuJtswChCryAtlmF3lC4DFdgzJxnqesrS1x0J2rqOl2anpQRCUa5m3om3y0gqQ3_XYqK1ezDbP3pRkeuwSS2e4HEPEZM6-euAK0G6TKA-EIO1Igb1F_EqeV_cOw5Jjxljj9IGzKrCZ4qXZX30sG0aMeCgGvreU2jGIDJzNrY7lM1SgXOFKffluI7nrvOzk",
        "e": "AQAB",
        "alg": "RS256",
        "x5u": "https://www.example.com/cert2.pem" 
      }
    }
  ],
  "assertionMethod": [
    "did:web:gaia-x.cloudandheat.com#JWK2020-RSA-0",
    "did:web:gaia-x.cloudandheat.com#JWK2020-X509-1"
  ]
}
```

> Gaia-X requires JWK as x.509 certificate. If you use scs-did-generator to create Gaia-X compliant DID documents, you have to use parameter `x509s` and set x.509 certificate as URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gaia-X requires JWK as x.509 certificate. If you use scs-did-generator to create Gaia-X compliant DID documents, you have to use the parameter `x509s` with a single x.509 certificate entry referenced by URL.
```
